13160 getting started needs updates (#13190)
conda/conda: docs/source/user-guide/getting-started.rst

Getting started with conda
==========================

> Conda is a powerful command line package and environment management tool that runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conda is a powerful command line tool for package and environment management that runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux.
```

This guide to getting started with conda goes over the basics of starting up and using conda to create environments and install packages.

.. tip::

>    Anaconda Navigator is a graphical desktop application that enables you to use conda without having to enter commands into the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Anaconda Navigator is a graphical desktop application that enables you to use conda without having to run commands at the command line.
```

I think this is the more canonical way of say that.

   See `Getting started with Anaconda Navigator <https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/navigator/getting-started>`_ to learn more.

Before you start
================

> You should have already installed conda before beginning this getting started guide. Conda can be found in many distributions, like `Anaconda Distribution <https://docs.anaconda.com/free/anaconda/install/>`_ or `Miniconda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/>`_.

Author: Totally!

Starting conda
==============

> Conda is available on Windows, macOS, or Linux. Conda can be used with any terminal application (or shell) in MacOS/Linux, while in Windows, we recommend using the Anaconda Prompt application provided by the Anaconda Distribution or Miniconda installations.

Author: Yeah, it felt weird to me, too, but I'm not sure of the non-Anaconda prompt way for Windows users to use conda. I assume some extra initialization somewhere? Happy to change this.

> Conda is available on Windows, macOS, or Linux. Conda can be used with any terminal application (or shell) in MacOS/Linux, while in Windows, we recommend using the Anaconda Prompt application provided by the Anaconda Distribution or Miniconda installations.

Reviewer: I need to research it myself 🙃. I think it should just work though for `cmd.exe` and `powershell` users.

The most basic way to create a new environment is with the following command::

   conda create -n <env-name>

To add packages while creating an environment, list them all behind the environment name::

   conda create -n myenvironment python numpy pandas

For more information on environments, see :doc:`Managing environments <tasks/manage-environments>`.

Listing environments
====================

To see a list of all your environments::

   conda info --envs

A list of environments appears, similar to the following::

   conda environments:

      base           /home/username/Anaconda3
      myenvironment   * /home/username/Anaconda3/envs/myenvironment

.. tip::
   The active environment is the one with an asterisk (*).

To change your current environment back to the default ``base``::

   conda activate

.. tip::
    When the environment is deactivated, its name is no longer shown in your prompt, and the asterisk (*) returns to ``base``. To verify, you can repeat the  ``conda info --envs`` command.

Installing packages
===================

> You can also install packages into a previously created environment. To do this, you first need to activate the environment. This changes the environment shown in your shell from ``(base)`` to the name of the environment. **Don’t install packages into your base environment.**::

Author: Ooh, good point on plugins. I'll remove that sentence.

   conda activate myenvironment
   conda install matplotlib

For more information on searching for and installing packages, see :doc:`Managing packages <tasks/manage-pkgs>`.

Specifying channels
===================

Channels are locations (on your own computer or elsewhere on the Internet) where packages are stored. By default, conda searches for packages in its :ref:`default channels <default-channels>`.

> If a package you want is somewhere else, such as conda-forge, you can manually specify the channel when installing the package::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a package you want is located in another channel, such as conda-forge, you can manually specify the channel when installing the package::
```

Reviewer: Maybe it would be nice to add a "Tip" admonition about anaconda.org for finding more packages and channels?

   conda activate myenvironment
   conda install conda-forge::numpy

You can also override the default channels in your `.condarc` file. For a direct example, see :ref:`Channel locations (channels) <config-channels>` or read the entire :doc:`Using the .condarc conda configuration file <configuration/use-condarc>`.

Updating conda
==============

To see your conda version, use the following command::

   conda --version

> No matter where in you run this command, conda displays the number of the version that you have installed::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No matter which environment you run this command in, conda displays its current version::
```

Is that what you meant?

Author: Woof, that was a bad sentence. Yeah, that's much better. Thanks!

   conda 23.10.0

.. note::
   If you get an error message ``command not found: conda``, close and reopen
   your terminal window and verify that you are logged
   into the same user account that you used to install Anaconda or Miniconda.

> To update conda to the current version::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update conda to the latest version::
```

   conda activate
   conda update conda

Conda compares your version to the latest available version and then displays what is available to install.

If a newer version of conda is available, type ``y`` and press Enter to update::

   Proceed ([y]/n)? y

.. tip::
   We recommend that you always keep conda updated to the latest version.

More information
================

* :doc:`Conda cheat sheet <cheatsheet>`

> * `Full documentation <https://conda.io/docs/>_`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Full documentation <https://conda.io/docs/>`_
```

Getting started with conda
==========================

Conda is a powerful command line tool for package and environment management that runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

This guide to getting started with conda goes over the basics of starting up and using conda to create environments and install packages.

.. tip::

   Anaconda Navigator is a graphical desktop application that enables you to use conda without having to run commands at the command line.

   See `Getting started with Anaconda Navigator <https://docs.anaconda.com/free/navigator/getting-started>`_ to learn more.

Before you start
================

You should have already installed conda before beginning this getting started guide. Conda can be found in many distributions, like `Anaconda Distribution <https://docs.anaconda.com/free/anaconda/install/>`_, `Miniconda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/>`_ or `Miniforge <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge>`_.

Starting conda
==============

Conda is available on Windows, macOS, or Linux and can be used with any terminal application (or shell).

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Windows

>       #. Open either the Command Prompt (cmd.exe) or Powershell.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      #. Open either the Command Prompt (cmd.exe) or PowerShell.
```
This is the most nitpicky nitpick, so please don't let it be a blocker if you wanna just merge without changing this!

Author: Good callout. I've never realized that capitalization standard.

This guide to getting started with conda goes over the basics of starting up and using conda to create environments and install packages.

.. tip::

   Anaconda Navigator is a graphical desktop application that enables you to use conda without having to run commands at the command line.

   See `Getting started with Anaconda Navigator <https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/navigator/getting-started>`_ to learn more.

Before you start
================

You should have already installed conda before beginning this getting started guide. Conda can be found in many distributions, like `Anaconda Distribution <https://docs.anaconda.com/free/anaconda/install/>`_, `Miniconda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/>`_ or `Miniforge <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge>`_.

Starting conda
==============

Conda is available on Windows, macOS, or Linux and can be used with any terminal application (or shell) in macOS/Linux, while in Windows, we recommend using the Anaconda Prompt application provided by the Anaconda Distribution or Miniconda installations.

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Windows

>       #. From the Start menu, search for "Anaconda Prompt".
>       #. Open the Anaconda Prompt desktop app that appears in the search sidebar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Open either cmd.exe or Powershell to open a terminal to use conda
```

I would like to not have Anaconda specific instructions here. This should be a valid way to open a terminal window to use conda with. I tested this out on a VM.

Starting conda
==============

**Windows**

* From the Start menu, search for and open "Anaconda Prompt."

.. figure:: /img/anaconda-prompt.png
   :width: 50%

   ..

|

On Windows, all commands below are typed into the Anaconda Prompt window.

**MacOS**

* Open Launchpad, then click the terminal icon.

On macOS, all commands below are typed into the terminal window.
Conda is available on Windows, macOS, or Linux and can be used with any terminal application (or shell) in macOS/Linux, while in Windows, we recommend using the Anaconda Prompt application provided by the Anaconda Distribution or Miniconda installations.

**Linux**
.. tab-set::

* Open a terminal window.
   .. tab-item:: Windows

On Linux, all commands below are typed into the terminal window.
      #. From the Start menu, search for "Anaconda Prompt".
      #. Open the Anaconda Prompt desktop app that appears in the search sidebar.

> .. _managing-conda:

Reviewer 3: Is this referenced somewhere in the docs with `:ref:`?

Author: I double checked and there is not a `managing-conda` ref in the conda repo. Good callout, though!

> Conda allows you to create separate environments, each containing their own files, packages, and package dependencies. The contents of each environment do not interact with one another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conda allows you to create separate environments, each containing their own files, packages, and package dependencies. The contents of each environment do not interact with each other.
```

Is that better?

Author: Works for me!

> For more information on environments, see :doc:`Managing environments <tasks/manage-environments>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on working with environments, see :doc:`Managing environments <tasks/manage-environments>`.
```

> You can also install packages into a previously created environment. To do this, you first need to activate the environment. This changes the environment shown in your shell from ``(base)`` to the name of the environment::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also install packages into a previously created environment. To do this, you can either activate the environment you want to modify or specify the environment name on the command line.
```

>    conda activate myenvironment
>    conda install matplotlib

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # via environment activation
   conda activate myenvironment
   conda install matplotlib
   
   # via command line option
   conda install --name myenvironment matplotlib
```

For more information on searching for and installing packages, see :doc:`Managing packages <tasks/manage-pkgs>`.

Specifying channels
===================

Channels are locations (on your own computer or elsewhere on the Internet) where packages are stored. By default, conda searches for packages in its :ref:`default channels <default-channels>`.

If a package you want is located in another channel, such as conda-forge, you can manually specify the channel when installing the package::

>    conda activate myenvironment
>    conda install conda-forge::numpy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   conda install --channel conda-forge numpy
```

Reviewer: I don't think it's necessary to include the activation here. In the prior section we explained how to install packages.

Author: Fair. It was more for emphasis or if the user skipped ahead, but I get you.

You can also override the default channels in your `.condarc` file. For a direct example, see :ref:`Channel locations (channels) <config-channels>` or read the entire :doc:`Using the .condarc conda configuration file <configuration/use-condarc>`.

.. tip::

>    Find more packages and channels by searching `Anaconda.org <https://www.anaconda.org>`_. To learn more about searching for packages and channels on Anaconda.org, see `Anaconda.org's documentation <https://docs.anaconda.com/free/anacondaorg/user-guide/>`_.

Author: I'm not a fan of how repetitive this is, but wanted to convey that the Anaconda.org documentation is outside the conda documentation.

>    Find more packages and channels by searching `Anaconda.org <https://www.anaconda.org>`_. To learn more about searching for packages and channels on Anaconda.org, see `Anaconda.org's documentation <https://docs.anaconda.com/free/anacondaorg/user-guide/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Find more packages and channels by searching `Anaconda.org <https://www.anaconda.org>`_. 
```

How about just remove it? 😄 I think that's perfectly reasonable to do.

Author: Sounds good to me!

Updating conda
==============

To see your conda version, use the following command::

   conda --version

No matter which environment you run this command in, conda displays its current version::

   conda 23.10.0

.. note::
   If you get an error message ``command not found: conda``, close and reopen
   your terminal window and verify that you are logged
   into the same user account that you used to install conda.

To update conda to the latest version::

>    conda activate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You don't need to have conda activated to update conda.

   conda update conda

Conda compares your version to the latest available version and then displays what is available to install.

> If a newer version of conda is available, type ``y`` and press Enter to update::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    Proceed ([y]/n)? y

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think including the the above lines is a bit overkill.

Author: Agreed.

.. tip::

>    We recommend that you always keep conda updated to the latest version.

Reviewer 3: Opportunity to point to [CEP 10](https://github.com/conda-incubator/ceps/blob/main/cep-10.md)?

Author: Sure!

and package dependencies. The contents of each environment do not interact with one another.

When you begin using conda, you already have a default environment named
``base``. You don't want to put programs into your base environment, though.
Create separate environments to keep your programs isolated from each other.
``base``. **Don't install programs into your base environment.** Instead,
create separate environments for each project to keep your programs isolated from each other.

#. Create a new environment and install a package in it.

   We will name the environment ``snowflakes`` and install the package
   BioPython. At the Anaconda Prompt or in your terminal window, type
   the following:
   BioPython:

   .. code::

      conda create --name snowflakes biopython

   Conda checks to see what additional packages ("dependencies")
   BioPython will need, and asks if you want to proceed:
   Conda checks to see what additional packages
   BioPython will need to run (BioPython's dependencies) and lists them for you.
   Type ``y`` and press Enter to proceed:

   .. code::

      Proceed ([y]/n)? y

   Type "y" and press Enter to proceed.

> #. To use, or "activate" the new environment, type the following:

Author: Removed this and the items below to try and streamline the getting started. It seemed unnecessary to have info on such an old version of conda anymore, but if we wanted to keep the information on `activate <ENV>` and `source activate <ENV>`, I could make a specific page on it.
